This is a quick writeup to get the oss2pulse daemon running as things
stand at 2007-01-17.  Things are as yet unfinished, and this applies
to both fusd and oss2pulse.

WHAT IT DOES:

oss2pulse is an OSS emulation daemon for PulseAudio, much like
oss2jack for the Jack daemon(1).  Using fusd(2), it creates real
/dev/dsp, /dev/mixer and /dev/sndstat entries that are intended to be
functionally indistinguishable from real OSS devices, but are
serviced by the PulseAudio daemon.  In this way, legacy OSS
applications work properly and cooperatively with PulseAudio,
eliminating the historical problem of 'sound stops working after the
desktop makes a noise'(3).  Thus we can move to Pulse on the
desktop without affecting legacy OSS apps(4).

(1): oss2pulse and oss2jack share some amount of code; I originally
started porting from oss2jack but found it was easier to start with
padsp and just use oss2jack as a fusd interaction example.

(2): Framework for User Space Devices; allows a daemon to create
system entries / device entries that can be serviced by a userspace
application.  Despite the similar name, it is not related to FUSE
(which is used to implement filesystems in userspace) or any of
the suggested APIs for allowing userspace PCI device drivers.  FUSD is
intended for implementing high-level device-class drivers.

(3): ...and the knee jerk support reaction, 'ps ax, look for esd, and
kill it.'

(4): A similar strategy is envisioned for hiding the ALSA devices being
used by PulseAudio and offering emulated equivalents such that legacy
ALSA apps can also work through PulseAudio without modification.
Whether that's done with a similar daemon, through an alternate
libasound or using an ALSA module, the goal is the same.  We *can*
stamp out dmix in our lifetimes.

CURRENT STATE:

oss2pulse has just now reached the point of 'worth testing, please
comment.'  The code is sound, but raw and unfinished.  Numerous small
details are incomplete or known to be incorrect.  Among them:

1) no mmap support for /dev/dsp yet (should be there within two weeks). 

2) numerous unimplemented ioctl()s.

3) Mixer mapping is a bit of a hack. See the 'RFC' section.

4) the fusd implementation as yet does not have fully generic class
   support.  It can only create devices of a class that doesn't
   already exist, but handles the 'sound' class as a special case.
   This requires a small kernel patch to correct and will be available
   soon.

Despite these unfinished bits, most OSS apps already work and work
properly.

THINGS I'D ESPECIALLY LIKE FEEDBACK ON:

1) 'FUSD', which claims to be pronounced 'fused', not 'fuse - dee' is
confusingly similar to the unrelated FUSE.  For fusd to be adopted, it
needs another name. ("Exodev"?  "Userdev"?)

2) FUSD, at the moment, takes as arguments to its registration function a
'name' and a 'devname'.  Confusingly, 'name' specifies the name of the
device under /dev and 'devname' (not present in the original fusd, it
appears in Kor's update to kernel 2.6) seems to be a mostly
meaningless symbol embedded in the registered kobject.  Might anyone
be able to shed some light on why exactly the independent 'devname'
field is useful?
 
3) Pulse has no control over the hardware master volume, but the vast
majority of OSS apps are only capable of using the master and simply
assume it is there.  The plan, not implemented yet, is to have
'Master' map to the source/sink gain and implement PCM/IGAIN via
in-daemon software scaling.

Monty
20070117